=head1 NAME

Mnet::FAQ - network automation scripting faq

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This document contains answers to the most frequently asked questions
about the Mnet network perl scripting module.

=head1 QUESTIONS

Also refer to the latest release of the Mnet network automation perl
scripting module and documention located at http://menzascripting.com 

=head2 Why not use existing telnet, ssh and/or cisco modules?

Existing perl modules are not complete solutions for custom network
management. The Mnet network perl scripting module includes facilites
for logging, flexible configuration, automatic ssh/telnet fallback,
complex authentication, batch processing, reporting, snmp and custom
monitoring and alerts, and database and web capabilities.

=head2 How best to organize Mnet config settings?

Mnet scripts can specify config settings in a number of places. For
quick scripts it may be easiest to specify settings on the command
line or in the script as part of an object function call.

The default --conf-etc setting directs all scripts to read settings
from an /usr/local/etc/Mnet.conf file, if it exists. This file can
contain a number of default settings for use by all scripts. Settings
from this file can be overridden on a script's command line.

An --conf-auth file may be specified, referring to a file with
restricted permissions allowing for scripts scheduled to run in the
backround to have secure access to passwords.

More details about how Mnet config settings are applied can be found
in the Mnet module documentation.

=head2 Does Mnet work with IPv6 addresses?

The Mnet::Expect module can connect to ipv6 addresses. By default the
Mnet::Expect module uses the system ssh and telnet commands. These
normally accept either ipv4, ipv6 or resolvable hostnames with the
input object-address setting. The behavior of this module can even be
be customized to use other system commands and address families.

The Mnet::Ping module does not support ipv6 at this time. A custom
module could be created that executes a local system ping6 command.

The Mnet::SNMP module should support ipv6. The Socket6 perl module
must be installed for ipv6 to function. This module will set the
snmp-domain to udp6/tcp6 if a colon is detected in the object-address
and the snmp-domain was not explicitly set tp udp4/tcp4/udp6/tcp6.

The Mnet::Poll module should work with an ipv6 object-address. The
poll-ping config setting should be cleared. Mnet::SNMP only will then
be used for polling. Note that the standard interface mib does not
include ipv6 addresses. Refer to the Mnet::Poll module documentation
for more details.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Mnet

=cut
